# Welcome
Welcome to the  The lab guide is part of the  learning plan for IBM and Business Partner Technical Sales and related badge. The learning plan is intended to teach technical sellers and Business Partners how to conduct a proof of experience (PoX) for a client. 

!!! Warning "In a fast-paced world, things change..."

    The products and services may appear differently than what is shown in the lab guide. This can occur if the product or service is updated with a new version.

    Responses generated by IBM watsonx Assistant for Z are likely to change over time. The responses you see when you run the queries in this section may differ from the screen images captured in the lab guide. 

## Prerequisite knowledge
The prerequisite requirements to complete this course are as follows:

- Basic Windows or Linux (MacOS) Operating System admin skills, including:

    - Open a command prompt or power shell on Windows, or a terminal window on Linux (MacOS)

    - Change directories, create directories, and move directories

    - Set environment variables and add directories to the default PATH

    - Create and modify plain text files with an editor and save as plain text files

    - Familiarity with a visual code editor like VS Studio Code is a plus

- The following links may help with these basic skills. This is not an endorsement of the sources. Try searching the internet for related resources.	
    
    - <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MBBWVgE0ewk" target="_blank">Windows tutorials</a> (and other videos in the series).

    - <a href="https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/introduction-to-powershell/" target="_blank">Windows PowerShell</a>.

    - <a href="https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/OpenSource/Conceptual/ShellScripting/CommandLInePrimer/CommandLine.html" target="_blank">MacOS terminal</a>.

    - <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZtqBQ68cfJc" target="_blank">The 50 most popular Linux & terminal commands - full course for beginners</a> (based on the following book).

    - <a href="https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/the-linux-commands-handbook/" target="_blank">The Linux Commands Handbook</a> (Linux/MacOS).

!!! Tip "Read and follow all the directions."

    It is important to read and follow all the documented steps. Skipping steps or sections can cause issues with completing the lab.

    Also, invest a few minutes in reading the tips in the [Using the demonstration guide](#using-the-demonstration-guide) section. The tips will save you time and frustration in completing the lab.

## Lab overview
This lab guide covers the setup, configuration, and usage of watsonx Assistant for Z. This lab guide uses and the three Velocity Pilot lab environments in IBM Technology Zone (ITZ). 

The lab guide also enables dedicated lab environments for customized client PoXs and demonstrations.for additional information.

Using the lab guide, you learn how to:

- Provision the lab environments
- Create an assistant and configuring conversational search
- Configure assistant settings
- Test conversational search
- Deploy a dedicated instance of OpenSearch for client document ingestion (Optional)
- Import skills for z/OS automations
- Connect apps to assistants
- Create assistant actions
- Create skill flows 
- Publish and deploy an assistant

In addition, you import pre-packaged z/OS skills and create custom-built skills to deliver an assistant that handles 3 use cases:

- Retrieving initial program load (IPL) information
- Managing certificates
- Resource Access Control Facility (RACF) administration support

!!! Note "Not all capabilities of the offering are covered in the lab guide."

    This lab guide covers many features and capabilities of IBM Watson Assistant for Z, but not all. Some uncovered capabilities may be available in ITZ environments, while others may not, such as using skills for OMEGAMON.
